# GLAMURS ONTOLOGIES

This is the directory containing all the ontologies from the [GLAMURS](http://www.glamurs.eu) project. Each leaf directory contains several ontologies. Common roots contain any imported ontologies common to those leaf ontologies below them, or, alternatively an integration ontology representing all those ontologies in those leaf directories. All ontologies are in the [OWL" functional format](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-syntax/#Functional-Style_Syntax). This syntax has been adopted as it is very [grokkable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grok) to humans, especially in comparison to the several other OWL2 recognised renderings - in that it is more comprehensible than those particular syntaxes those based around XML.   

Generally there are 3 types of ontology in this repository. These are:
+ TBOX - These are ontological definitions of classes, object property and data values. These may be thought of as similar to database schemata for databases.
+ ABOX - These are ontologies containing individuals and have the file prefix abox-. These can be thought of the values that a database contains. 
+ KB - These are a combination of TBOX and ABOX and are generally referred to as knowledge bases. There are no true knowledge bases in this repository

Note that the most useful of these ontologies describing the various aspects of the project are TBOX (or TBOX very sparsely populated with anonymous data). This has been done in order to protect any referenced participants privacy. For a more detailed explanation of the structure of each of the ontologies, then consult the individual README.md of the corresponding directory. However, there are several ontologies prefix with "mirror-" indicating that these are knowledge bases, but actually these were automatically generated by ```src/create_terminology_ontology_wrapper.pl```, which takes all the individual ontological entities of classes, object properties and data object properties, converts them to an individual, which we have denoted a "term" and reference forward and backwards using annotation properties to the original ontological entity. This has been done so we can reason over these "terms" at a later stage. In some cases this has not needed to have been done as this was part of the methodology in constructing the ontologies. In particular this applies to the top-down ontologies of the expert terminology and the on-line questionnaire ontologies.

The philosophy behind the structuring of the ontologies is quite straight-forward. There is a top-down set of ontologies, realising the common-sense approach to the project. These consist of an ontologies created from the original description of work, terms mined from the documentation and terminology elicited from the member of the project by means of an online questionnaire. 

The specialist parts of the project are represented by the bottom-up ontologies. These are coding schemes for interviews and surveys, models and specialist environmental data. 

These two sets of ontologies are integrated together using the ontology referenced in the integration directory. This represents a particular kind of integration: that of a star network, which is essentially the way this project has been organised. That is from the top-down. Note this is not the only means of organising projects, but is a fairly common, straight-forward and reasonable way of project organisation.

Thus, the directory structure of this directory is the following:
+ **bottom-up ontologies** - This contains all the ontologies created for each major deliverable of the project. These can be listed into the following categories. Each category corresponds to a directory.

+ **top-down ontologies** - This contains ontologies created from the description of work and the ontologies created from text mining the GLAMURS documentation corpus.
	- *original description of work ontology* - This is the ontology created from the description of work at the start of the project.
	- *expert vocabulary* - This directory contains the ontology for the expert vocabulary. This is the combination of the top 200 word groups (terminology of 2 to 3 words) that have the highest combined familiarity and frequency. The familiarity in this case is defined using the corresponding property for that word in [WordNet](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/).
	- *glossary* - This directory contains an ontology listing all the terms in the initial glossary for the project that were actually used within the project. By this it is meant that some terms in the directory were not actually used through the project. This was measured by determining the frequency of the use of a given term, and if it is below a specified number then it is deemed not to be part of the project's ontology.
	- *high frequency terms* - These are the highest frequency single word terms and term of two or three words most used in the project, but not defined elsewhere. These probably represent the actual top-down ontology of the project. 
	- *on-line questionnaire* - This contains the ontology for all the responses to the on-line questionnaire not covered by the other categories listed in the top-down ontology directories. That is all the responses gathered before any directed attempt was made to obtain terminology specifically for the expert vocabulary ontology and the high frequency terms ontology. 
+ **integration ontology** - This directory contains just the one ontology used to link the other ontologies together. This is a modification of the global vocabulary ontology found in the ontology root directory. This has been done to allow the specification of directional axioms. In particular, this may be used to enforce the star network pattern on the overall ontology by enforcing axioms the ensure all linkages should happen via the top-down ontology. 

Other than these directories and this README file, the other, remaining files in this directory are quite important. These are as follows:

+ **glamurs.owl** - this is the global representation in ontological form of the entire [GLAMURS](http://www.glamurs.eu) project, and is automatically generated from the component ontology files resident in this directory and the all the ontologies existing in all the sub-directories of this directory. This ontology is automatically generated by ```src/create_glamurs_ontology.pl```.
+ **metadata.owl** - this the ontology used to "termify" individual ontologies. Because there are no reasoners for reasoning over relationships between types, and specifically the ability to constrain and reason in terms of domains and ranges, then to analyse the relationship between terminology this must be done at the level of individuals. Thus the OWL2 entities of classes, object properties and data properties and instantiated as objects and linked forward and backward to the original entity. This allows rules to determine new relationships between given terms.
+ **gamma_represents.owl** - these are all the general representations, generally between mutually exclusive groups of entities, and there sub-entities.
+ **sigma_represents.owl** - these are specific representation asserted between ontological entities such as classes, object properties and data values, when, and only when these concepts are instantiated as individuals. 
+ **sigma_represents_types.owl** - these are specific representations, but at the level of the TBOX definition. These rules are processed to give relationships between the corresponding instance, generated for the ontological processes. These can be processed to instantiated links between individual terms.
+ **rules.owl** - these represent the sanity checking for the integration of the global ontology and additionally any inference rules that may generate new relationships between entities, such establish semantic linkage between disparate classes (that is possibly translating  between different domains of expertise).
+ **misc.owl** - all other TBOX entries that are required to finish off the global ontology.


The [GLAMURS](http://www.glamurs.eu) global ontology is then generated using something like the following command:

~~~~
src/create_glamurs_ontology.pl
-o "ontologies/glamurs.owl"
-l "ontologies/gamma_represents_types.owl"
-l "ontologies/sigma_represents_types.owl"
-p "ontologies/sigma_represents_types.owl"
-l "ontologies/sigma_represents.owl"
-l "ontologies/misc.owl"
-l "ontologies/rules.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/back-casting/mirror-backcasting.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/back-casting/backcasting.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/initiative interviews/mirror-initiative.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/initiative interviews/initiative.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/models/agent-based models/TiPaC/mirror-tipac.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/models/agent-based models/TiPaC/tipac.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/models/macro-economic models/mirror-tsc.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/models/macro-economic models/tsc.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/models/micro-economic models/mirror-ubah.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/models/micro-economic models/ubah.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/regional surveys/rest of Europe/mirror-regional-roe.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/regional surveys/rest of Europe/regional-roe.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/regional surveys/Scotland/mirror-regional-sco.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/regional surveys/Scotland/regional-sco.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/environmental footprinting/mirror-ntnu.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/environmental footprinting/ntnu.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/social network analysis/rest of Europe/mirror-sna-roe.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/social network analysis/rest of Europe/sna-roe.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/social network analysis/Scotland/mirror-sna-sco.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/social network analysis/Scotland/sna-sco.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/UKHLS/mirror-ukhls.owl"
"ontologies/bottom-up ontologies/UKHLS/ukhls.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/original description of work ontology/mirror-core.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/original description of work ontology/core.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/on-line questionnaire ontology/mirror-questionnaire.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/on-line questionnaire ontology/questionnaire.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/expert vocabulary ontology/mirror-expert.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/expert vocabulary ontology/expert.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/mirror-top-down.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/top-down.owl"
"ontologies/top-down ontologies/metadata.owl"
~~~~